our main story tonight concerns India it
just narrowly beats out America as the
country where a 20-minute lecture in
this accent is the least
welcome India is currently preparing for
a very important visitor who is arriving
tomorrow Donald Trump's first visit to
India will be a special one he will be
accompanied by the first lady Melania
Trump many are wondering if they will
make an unscheduled visit to the Taj
Mail the enduring symbol of love why
wouldn't they do that what possibly
makes you think that this happy couple
would not want to visit an enduring
symbol of love every trip is a honeymoon
for these two lovebirds couple goals but
but it is true Trump's first fake visit
to India begins tomorrow and at the
center of it will be Prime Minister
Narendra Modi a man for whom Trump seems
to have a great deal of affection just
listen to him talk about Modi when they
met up last September he's a great
gentleman and a great leader and I
remember India before now not intimately
but I remember India before it was very
torn there was a lot of dissension a lot
of fighting and he brought it all
together like a father would bring it
together it means the father of India
we'll call him the father of India I
think that's not so bad
yeah that's not so bad is it you know
what a father is right it's a guy who
brings the family together by giving
them lots of money but never emotional
validation and sure that means the
remainder of your life is spent in a
series of grasping quest for recognition
and unconditional love from everyone
around you and if anyone doesn't love
you enough you hate them and want them
to die in prison because living this
kind of life is like being in a very
nice boat made of friends who think
you're the best and anyone who doesn't
think that he's a small hole in your
boat and it lets the water in and
eventually you sink but all the waves
and there's nothing left but you
drowning in the silence screaming abyss
that your father bestow to you as your
groups and birthright
you know father a daddy but calling Modi
the father of India is completely
inappropriate for multiple reasons not
the least of which is that there is a
certain Gandhi who already holds that
exact title which is not to say
that Modi is not popular he is he was
recently overwhelmingly re-elected for a
second five-year term and his rallies
often features supporters wearing masks
of his face while I do get that that is
intended as a show of support let me
just say this please don't ever come to
this show and do that that is literally
my nightmare and Modi's cult of
personality extends well beyond India
you may be aware of him as one of the
most aggressive huggers on the world
stage or from his charming appearance on
man vs. wild with Bear Grylls here we go
hello mate yeah yeah that's good honest
is there now putting again when it is
really fresh and it's really wet
straight out of the anus once in Africa
I squeezed it like this but not today
okay okay I know that seems gross but
remember that dung is straight out of
the anus elephant dung when it's fresh
from the butthole direct from the rectum
still convalescing from the small
intestine ride-or-die for teams straight
from the anus none of that processed
elephant dung none of that I can't
believe it's not from an elephants
and certainly not stevia's elephant dung
I know it has less calories than anus
dung but it tastes like in exactly
the wrong way but what Lodi may have
charmed bear grylls the world and our
current president within India
he's an increasingly controversial
figure because his government has
pursued a steadily escalating
persecution of religious minorities
persecution so intense the for the last
two months
Indians across the country have been
taken to the streets in anger on Sunday
in New Delhi the protests turned violent
police fired tear gas and clashed with
students who accused officers of
indiscriminate violence at least a
hundred were injured at one point
protesters torch public buses yeah and
burnt out buses generally aren't a sign
that people are happy with you it's the
gesture that says you suck so hard I
don't even care how I get home and if
citizens in the world's largest
democracy home to over a billion people
are either wearing masks of Modi or
marching in the streets it seems like
tonight it might be worth exploring why
that is where things could be heading
and why calling Modi the father of India
is stupid at best and dangerous at worst
and let's start by acknowledging Modi's
significant appeal because he has an
inspirational personal story he grew up
poor and rose from selling tea on
railway platforms in Gujarat to running
that state and eventually the entire
country his election in 2014 was
actually the subject of our very first
show back when he looked the same and I
looked 30 years younger can I just say
if this is happening because someone is
slowly poisoning me please do it faster
now loading ran as a populist and since
becoming Prime Minister has taken one
big swing after another often with the
goal of improving the lives of the poor
and he's had some success there he's
delivered a new cooking gas connections
to 72 million poor families and he
fulfilled a campaign promise to build
over 110 million toilets which is a big
deal that addressed a major public
health hazard so much so that a few
years back
UNICEF India launched a catchy campaign
called take your poo to the loo
first thing in the morning what do I see
a pile of
[Music]
that state
yes exactly that that is catchy
that is my new favorite song and it will
remain so until the inevitable take your
poo to the Old Town Road remix and that
will be my favorite but Lodi has had
some big swing and misses too like
during his first term when he decided to
fight corruption and money laundering by
abruptly canceling some of the most
commonly used banknotes in India with
just four hours notice which went about
as well as you might expect today as
banks open for the first time since the
surprise announcement there was utter
chaos people lined up for us to change
their money some had to be turned away
because the banks just ran out of cash
giving us money they keep telling me
come on Monday come on Monday I've been
standing in the queue for three days now
and I haven't gotten any money yeah
that's ridiculous and an entirely
predictable consequence of announcing
without any warning that 86% of Indian
money was no longer money just think
about what would happen here if Trump
suddenly announced that as of midnight
tonight every ten and twenty dollar bill
is worthless it would be complete mayhem
and then of course Republicans would
defend it the Supreme Court would uphold
it other than two weeks people be
holding up signs denouncing money at
Trump rallies because that's the
world we seem to live in now
was unless it caused complete chaos and
it didn't even make a dent in corruption
and get incredibly it didn't make him
any less popular and that is actually
one of Modi's greatest strengths his
charisma is such that he somehow evades
public anger sticking to him which is a
very dangerous superpower especially
when you consider how extreme one of his
defining beliefs is because Modi is a
Hindu nationalist and at the core of
that is a belief that India is a
fundamentally Hindu nation which is
provocative given that India's founders
Gandhi and Nehru explicitly disavowed
that with Gandhi say the state should
undoubtedly be secular and yet
throughout his career
Modi's party the BJP has served as the
political arm of a hardcore Hindu
nationalist paramilitary group the RSS
and I know that I've just thrown a lot
of lettuce at you there but if there is
one thing that I'd really like you to
know about the RSS and by extension
Modi's party it is this the RSS was
formed in 1925 by Katia's Bevere on head
gala with the purpose of creating a
Hindu unity early leaders such as ms gol
Walker admired Adolf Hitler and the Nazi
movement for steps taken to ensure quote
the purity of the race and its culture
that is true
the founders of the RSS admired Hitler
for ensuring the purity of the race
which is just not a chill thing to
admire Hitler for there is one and only
one thing that it's okay to admire
Hitler for and it's the fact that he
killed Hitler look everyone talks a big
game when it comes to killing Hitler but
to be fair Hitler is the only one who
stepped up and got it done and for that
I say way to go Hitler all the other
Hitler eggs that Hitler did thumbs down
but that very last bitter of Hitler
thumbs up and by the way do not take
that image out of context
look look obviously it is extremely
worrying to have a prime minister with
that association especially because
India has always struggled to strike a
balance between its ideals of tolerance
and the reality of religious tensions
which have erupted multiple times over
the years and unfortunately Modi himself
was right at the center of one of those
eruptions in 2002 violent riots broke
out along sectarian lines across Gujarat
killing more than a thousand people
mostly Muslims Modi oversaw all of this
as head of the state and is blamed for
doing nothing to stop the violence the
United States revoked the leaders visa
over the incidents in 2005 yeah and that
is not good and what somehow makes it
even worse is that over the years Modi
has offered at most tepid apologies for
his actions back then once even walking
out of an interview when asked if he
regretted that the killings happened
which is just not OK when you are being
asked about your role in the deaths of
thousands you simply don't get to walk
out of an interview that kind of
behavior is reserved for Adam driver in
an NPR interview about marriage story
and that is only because Adam driver can
do whatever the he wants
step on my trunk Adam driver you rudely
large man break my fingers you brooding
Mountain Lodi Modi has employed Modi has
employed a similar tactic of strategic
quiet as Prime Minister he doesn't talk
much about religious minorities but
those closest to him are comfortable
saying a lot India is home to the second
largest population of Muslims on earth
and many members of the BJP have openly
targeted them for instance when it came
time for Modi and his party to appoint a
chief minister of Uttar Pradesh a state
that's home to 200 million people they
chose yogi Adityanath a man who said
things like this
those cookies to be exact the recipe
holy that is not even dog whistle
Islamophobia that's basically just
writing we hate Muslims on a dog and
then throwing that dog at the nearest
Muslim clearly that rhetoric is an
affront to everything that India stands
for remember Gandhi and Nehru the
founders of modern India stood for
religious pluralism meaning they
encouraged the coexistence of diverse
faiths and you may actually need to
remember that because Modena's party are
now actively trying to erase whole
sections of India's history
Nehru for instance has been edited out
of some history textbooks altogether and
what has been added to the curriculum is
pretty eye catching in June 2014 the
Gujarat government introduced a set of
10 textbooks for primary schools most
lessons revolve around the idea of
Indian supremacy for example on page 22
of a book called pradhana deep 3 there's
a very interesting story about how God
created the world he was making bread
and he took it out of the oven too early
and that's how white people were created
the second time around he left it in the
oven too long and that's how Negroes
were born the book uses the word Negro
and then the last time around he learned
from his two previous mistakes and took
the bread out just in time and that's
how Indians were created clearly a lot
wrong with that but for starters that's
just not how white people were created I
don't want to get too technical here but
white people were created when a sale at
Kohl's a true-crime podcast
that's that's how it happened I'm not
going to anymore but that is our origin
story right there and look this is stop
it look
this isn't just a cultural battle since
winning re-election Modi has moved from
quiet support for religious intolerance
to concrete action and in classic Modi
fashion he's done it with a big swing
because remember those protests that I
showed you earlier they were sparked by
a very controversial act the
government's planning to publish a
nationwide register of citizens everyone
would be forced to provide documents to
prove their indian those who can't would
be considered illegal immigrants only
non-muslims would be protected under the
new citizenship news it's true Modi and
his party may be about to strip millions
of Muslims of citizenship and they did
it in a diabolically clever two-step way
first they announced they'd be rolling
out a national register of citizens or
NRC where everyone would need to provide
documents proving they were Indian
citizens something that many people
particularly the poor or illiterate
simply do not have now that alone did
not target Muslims but here is the
second part Modi's government also
introduced something called the
citizenship amendment bill or c a.b
which granted citizenship to
undocumented people if they were from
basically any religious minority but
Muslims so to recap the NRC kicks
everyone who's undocumented off the
Citizenship rolls and the CA be lets
everyone back on except Muslims they're
basically Marie Kondo in India and it's
only Muslims that don't seem to spark
joy in them
and what Modi has insisted that in no
way is his intent to target Muslims his
closest confidant and basic
second-in-command Amit Shah has been
pretty unambiguous about what the
combination of these two steps is
designed to do through CA B we will give
citizenship to all the Hindu Sikh
Buddhist Jain Christian refugees after
that
pay attention friends will implement NRC
tell me should we throw out the
infiltrators or not the infiltrators are
sucking the blood of this country like
parasites Wow infiltrate Azhar sucking
our blood like parasites and it's
important to remember Amit Shah is
basically Modi's right hand and if you
don't disavow what your right hand is
doing that is then on you if Kermit the
Frog told you the Lindbergh baby had it
coming you might reasonably go Jim are
you gonna say something about
this you're not what is wrong with you
Jim stop the Frog saying this up you
have the power to do that
these citizenship laws have had a huge
impact across India with many
understandably terrified especially as
the government is now building detention
camps for all the illegal immigrants
that they are creating and there is a
cruel irony for some of those building
the camps
it's a detention camp in the making
about 450 laborers working on its
construction since December
among them Naas Ali who might very well
end up living here once it's completed
I'm very worried because my name didn't
come up in the final list of national
registry of citizens I don't know what
will happen next
I work here during the day and think
about my future at night yeah that man
is building a detention center that he
may end up inside that is simply the
most doors e18 thing that I have seen
tonight and I'll remind you that just 16
minutes ago I showed you man squeezing a
piece of fresh elephant into his
own mouth
look all of this is really dangerous
and I'd Center this atmosphere could get
someone killed but the truth is it
already has since Modi came to power
there has been an overall rise in
attacks against minorities and it is
incredibly depressing to see India
heading in this direction
the only glimmer of hope here is that
for perhaps the first time in Modi's
whole career his actions are creating a
massive and sustained backlash even as
Trump shows up to help him for uniting
India the protests against him are very
much ongoing and while Modi
has tried to paint them at the work of
Muslim extremists the protest has
actually come from a wide range of
backgrounds united by a single argument
the idea behind the react it's so
vicious that every thinking human being
everyone in this country will be
affected and therefore standing up Hindu
Muslims everybody are equal we want that
equality I mean do but I'm an Indian
first so when it comes to the values of
secularism given by the India when it
comes to the ideas of foundations of
India then no matter what I should be in
that I should preserve the
constitutional values which is the
utmost priority than any other thing
exactly and when you see loans like that
we begin to hope the Trump might
actually be right in a way about the man
that he's about to visit just not in the
exact way that he thinks because when he
says that Modi is bringing India
together with any luck the thing that
unites them may actually end up being
their complete disgust over what he is
trying to do because India hum of this
enduring symbol of love frankly deserves
a lot more than this temporary symbol of
hate
you